# Home-field-advantage-soccer-project

When it comes to sports, specifically soccer, home and away advantage can be a big factor on many outcomes and statistics during a match. For example, a home team might have home advantage and the referee might be in favor of them and that could lead to less fouls and cards called against them and more for the away team. Many athletes, like ourselves at some point, have stated that they rather play at home due to the atmosphere and not having to worry about traveling and getting exhausted of going to an away field.
“Home field advantage” is a concept in sports that has ties to emotions of the fan base and anecdotal support. I want to be able to report whether data supports this effect, but also which statistics are predictive of this difference to point a casual fan’s eye towards a data-based “why.” This also could help advise folks on when to tune into a team they might only casually support. If this difference is pronounced enough, a fan could be advised to avoid watching matches in which Liverpool is playing away - since results would be negative, and thus less enjoyable for that fan.
This project will investigate whether or not there is an advantage to playing at home or away for the European soccer team Liverpool. Specifically I hope to answer an experimental question with a null hypothesis that models return home statistics when Liverpool are playing home that are equal to away statistics when Liverpool is away, with an alternative hypothesis that my models return home statistics that are better than away statistics for a variety of response variables.
